---
layout: post
title: Skills
excerpt: "task, sharing, mailing list, agile, protocols, hypothesis, modus tollens, modus ponens, exteme programming, pipeline, risk, rollback, versioning, TDD, CI, CD, OOP, MVC, vendor, joel test, scrum, kanban, cloud computing"
list:
  name: frameworks
  type: timeline
categories: []
tags: []
permalink: know-how/
---
#### Soft skills
<div>
    I act like a mother in everything I do. So in a team, I acted as a filter for the developers. I teach, learn and share everything. I confront each other for finding a better solution: more heads are better than one and it is a best practice for involving all members of a team. And for a solution, I grow it in every detail but I do not cry when it is time to leave it.
</div>
#### Hard skills
<div>
    At the University I learned all I know about Biological and Statistics areas, and during the PhD, I started, full time, my adventure with the program languages, services and methods that have enriched my know-how (the second chart, or on the right).
</div>
<script src="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/Chart.js/2.7.3/Chart.min.js"></script>
<div class="row">
{% include graph.html data=site.data.index.skills %}
</div>
<div>
  I changed my skin and my role more times. I started early (1986) to write and compile a program, and I always follow the information technologies. I studied biology to get a transgenic and then I worked on genomic sequences to find small signals. In the last 15 years, every day for 8 hours or more, I have had the awesome luck for studying, playing and learning the roles of a data analyst before, a developer after and now an operator. So now I am a chimera among these roles: I catalog and I index everything, and I try to do it as automatically as possible trying to exploit existing services and paying attention to the final needs.
</div>
<div class="row">
{% include graph.html data=site.data.index.hard-skills %}
</div>
