#### Primary Key

# What Is a Primary Key?

A primary key of a table is a column that uniquely identifies each row in the table. A primary key column has several restrictions:

- It must be unique. To identify each row, the column cannot contain similar values for different rows.
- It must contain a value. A primary key cannot be NULL.
- A table can only have one primary key. A table can have multiple unique columns, but only one primary key.

It is usually useful to use auto-incrementing values as a primary key. For example, the first row gets the value 1, the second row gets the value 2, and so on.

PostgreSQL provides a way to automatically generate sequential values for a column using `identity`.

Going back to the table definition from the previous step, this is the syntax you used to declare the `id` column:

```
id int generated by default as identity primary key,
```

Let's break it down:

- `id`: The name of the column
- `int`: The type of the column
- `generated by default as identity`: Create a sequence and automatically populate the column with the next value when new rows are added
- `primary key`: Declare the column as the primary key of the table

To inspect the table and the related objects the database created for the primary, execute the following command in the terminal:

```
\d shorturl
```

In the output, notice the following:

- The database automatically created an index for the `id` column.
- The database automatically marked the `id` column as not null.

📚 The relevant documentation on primary keys can be found [here](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/13/ddl-constraints.html#DDL-CONSTRAINTS-PRIMARY-KEYS).

Now that you defined a primary key, you can move on to the other columns in the table.
